According to him, the
curriculum was now, quote, too modern,
with not enough attention to algebra
and the skillful use of slide rules.
As he proceeded to talk about what his generation
had used and needed,
the youngsters began to shake their heads in
disbelief because it was obvious that there was a
generational gap between his thoughts and their
aspirations.
Soon he called for the president of the senior
class to go with him to speak in opposition to the
RISL recommendations.
That young man stood up
and responded
to the old timer that because the senior class had
not discussed these matters Neither he as class
president nor any other individual could speak,
quote, for the senior class. In fact, he himself
favored at least some of the changes, if not all.
Thus, the session ended, and the students walked
away, sure, feeling confident, that this
gentleman
was a bit out of touch
with the current era.
Meanwhile, the former student leadership had
moved quickly to lend their efforts to the
recommendations.
Lindsay, Hervey, Wiris, all In agreement. About
the need about. The positive. Potential positive
results. Other recommended changes.
Joined in a. Minor revision. To the agenda. For
their officers gathering.
They added a final. topic, quote, other business,
quote, to the listing of discussion matters.
Thus, as the meeting neared its conclusion
and the men who had traveled from a wide variety of
towns began to gather their bags, President
Lindsay said, oh, something to the effect, oh,
there is one other item, other business. Here is
the background recommendations. Do I hear any
discussion? Yes, there is a motion and a second. No
discussion. All in favor say aye. There are no
nays. Meeting adjourned. As a few in the group
tried to express their opposition, Lindsay,
Wyrus, and Hervey hurried down the hallway and
handed Board Chairman Sterling Evans an
official endorsement by the leadership of the
former Student Association of the changes and the
Board of Directors then officially approved
All of the recommended changes
which had originated from the Aspirations
Committee and its subunits, including RISL,
except the change in the name.
These important modifications included the
admission of women, voluntary service in the
Corps of Cadets, racial integration, gradual
increase in admission requirements,
and a broadening and deepening of the curriculum.
According to Vice President Hall, paragraph,
according to Vice President Hall,
Earl Rudder had been particularly disturbed
by the suggested change to Texas State University
as the title of his alma mater.
He was particularly opposed
to the dilution
to the elimination of any wording which would
allow him and thousands of his contemporaries to
identify their proud institution as A&M in some
style or other.
Early
in 1970, when
I
went as chairman of the
library committee to seek increased funding for
the A&M Library.
Mr. Rutter's first response to that, on that
point, was to ask, was to say, to note that, quote,
y'all are always seeking more money for the
library. Do you think the students have read all
the books we've already got? Period, quote. Then
he promised that he would do the best he could to
find extra dollars.
And perhaps for the only time in my acquaintance
with him,
I sought to continue
a conversation with him on other topics.
And ventured to note
how much progress he had created at A&M and that
only he, quote, could have done that. With a smile,
he inquired,
why do you say that? Then I noted that no critic
could argue that he wasn't a Texan or an Aggie who
had served in the Corps,
had courageously
made his mark
on behalf of the nation in World War II,
was a hardworking husband,
father, public servant,
was not, quote, a fuddy-duddy PhD from somewhere
else just passing through, period, quote.
And that he knew quote knew his way around Austin.
By acquaintance. With. Key individuals. Like the
president. Governor. Key legislators and
others. Period quote.
The man who often identified himself as the.
pot-bellied prexy of A&M, leaned back, smiled,
and responded, oh, I never thought of any of that.
As we chuckled, he added an
unexpected bit of advice.
If you guys had recommended
the name that LSU has, then you have gotten the
approval of every recommendation you made.
When I,
in confusion,
asked about, quote, Louisiana State University
as the title for a school in Texas, he shook his head
in disbelief and noted
that the title of the land-grant school in
Louisiana
in the Pelican State is, quote, Louisiana State
University and Agricultural and Mechanical
College, quote, and that if we had proposed such
nomenclature
for his alma mater, he and his contemporaries
could have still, quote, called it A&M, and you
youngsters gradually could have called it
whatever you wanted, period, quote.
As the months quickly ensued, not quickly,
followed these changes, their results became
more and more meaningful.
The board of directors, in their wisdom,
modified the recommendation regarding women
so that females could enroll without restriction
in the graduate and professional programs.
But at the undergraduate level, only if they were
dependent of an A&M employee or student or in some
fuzzily worded
phrase if they were seeking a degree which could
best be obtained at A&M or something of that
nature.
Nevertheless,
the first semesters brought great change to the
campus.
The enrollment began to grow rapidly.
As the pride and. Satisfaction. Of almost all.
A&M folks increased.
On the other hand, paragraph on the other hand. A
few determined.
conservatives
began to continue
their efforts to restrain the changes.
Perhaps the most determined of these
conservatives was
an individual from Beaumont named Charlie
Babcock
who had relentlessly
authored
letters Petitions,
articles in newspapers,
and other
documents which he thought
would help keep his institution.
Mr. Babcock
had served for many years as an officer of the
Beaumont A&M Club, a group then known for their,
the regularity of their meetings and the
ceaseless commitment
of that group to their alma mater.
Because of the tenacity of Mr. Babcock's
petitions, letters, and what seemed to be his
unyielding admission that times were changing, I
concluded that he must be an outdated demon with
horns, a forked tail, and a lack
of understanding.
A few years later,
as the Romont A&M Club prepared to celebrate the
50th anniversary
of their never having missed a month during those
decades for their meeting,
McQuarris asked if I would go with him to be the
speaker on behalf of the A&M administration
to those energetic Aggies in the largest city of
the Golden Triangle.
As we were flying over in the A&M plane,
He mentioned that the group had planned to honor
Mr. Babcock
for his many years of service, although
he had
resigned his...
He had ended his longtime service to the club and
had absented himself
since the initiation of the changes, which he
thought would be devastatingly negative in their
effect on A&M.
When we arrived at the Harvest Club,
the site for the celebration on the grounds of the
Southeast Texas State Fair
It seemed that six or seven hundred people were
there, dressed appropriately for a good time.
And one of the
club's leaders proudly announced, he's here, Mr.
Babcock's here.
But yet he was unaware. of the plan
to honor him as the concluding highlight of the
evening.
When that moment came,
the master of ceremonies proudly invited Charlie
Babcock
as the most devoted Aggie in the group to come to the
platform.
That invitation followed many
recollections
of serious as well as humorous events.
Perhaps the biggest chuckle
had followed one speaker's mention
that
while there were women as full-time students at
A&M, his wife had gone there in the summers
while he, as a veteran, was earning his degree. And
that although she had only earned 24 hours of
credit,
she, quote, met that she had more grade points than
all the Kokonos brothers combined. That's
C-O-K-I-N-O-S, period, quote.
The loud applause and laughter which agreed with
her pride
came because
that group of brothers had made their mark on the
campus and in the community. as devoted public
servants,
but they were not known
as honor roll students.
Their immigrant father,
when asked by a reporter during the World War, 2.
How he felt about having quote so many sons on
active duty. Quote responded. By saying that he
wished he had twice as many sons as he did.
Because. He would have been proud to to. twice as
much gratitude for their being able to come to
America to grow up in America as they had enjoyed.
Period quote.
But as Charlie Babcock came to the stage
I studied him in surprise. Instead of the
tall, muscular, determined hulk that I expected,
here was a small gentleman, less than average in
weight and height,
who seemed rather shy and reserved. The crowd
stood and cheered.
And then the MC, the master of ceremonies, put his
arm on Mr. Babcock's shoulders and pulled out a
plaque
and turned
to mention, to say how the group wanted to honor him
as the most diligent and energetic of all Aggies in
the Beaumont club
and that while they understood the
integrity of his unyielding opposition to all of
the changes
They hoped that now he would accept it. Again, the
crowd jumped to their feet
as the little man stepped to the microphone and
motioned for them
to return to their seat, to be seated and in their
applause.
He began to sob
and then offered
a truly unforgettable request, saying only,
ladies and gentlemen, please forgive me. I was
wrong.
As we were returning on the plane, I asked
Buchwaris to explain this man to me who had seemed
to be a villain, but now obviously was a truly
sensitive hero.
He noted that Babcock had graduated without any
particular academic distinction. gone to work
for one of the refineries in the Beaumont area.
That he and his wife, a public school teacher, had
two children. But their daughter,
unfortunately, had died suddenly one day in her
junior high years from an unexpected heart
ailment. And he added, before he added, quote, and
then their son,
dash, quote,
and I interrupted with, no, no, I hope not. Before
he added, their son died in a wreck going home to
Beaumont.
during his sophomore year at A&M.
So I concluded my quick change of evaluation of
this man
with the heartfelt comment, I forgive him.
Ever since then,
when I attempt to offer
examples of the depth of A&M of former student
feelings and devotion.
I mention Mr. Babcock and that evening.
Following my muster remarks in Austin,
On April 21st, 1997,
a
tall man came up to me
and indicated he wanted to give me, quote, the rest
of the story, quote, about Charlie Babcock.
When I asked him his name, he told me, and now I can't
remember, I'll have to fold that in later.
When I heard his identification,
I asked for verification and then told him that he
was the finest hurdler that I had ever seen. He
inquired, what did I mean? And I mentioned that in
the spring of 1948, he won the district, regional,
and state championships in the higher hurdles,
setting a record in every race. He wondered how I
knew that, and I told him that he was a Beaumont
Royal Purple. at that time and that I, as an orange
tiger,